Astro CLI Tab - Overview, Quickstart, and Configure CLI docs (#711)
astronomer/docs: astro/cli/quickstart.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Install the CLI'
title: 'Install the Astro CLI'
id: cli-quickstart
description: Install the Astro CLI, the best way to run Apache Airflow and test data pipelines on your local machine.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

## Overview

> The Astro CLI is the easiest way to run Apache Airflow on your machine. By the end of this quickstart, you'll be able to run an Airflow project on your local machine with just a few commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Astro CLI is an open source command line for modern data orchestration. It is the easiest way to run Apache Airflow on your machine. By the end of this quickstart, you'll have an Airflow environment running locally with just a few commands. From there, you can start building your project with your own DAGs, dependencies, and tests.
```

Once we finish up this round of reviews, I actually want to review this section again and think about other ways we can talk about our value add specifically and WHY this is the best experience (e.g. mention Astro Runtime)

Author: That's cool, but let's try to focus that information in our Overview doc and keep the quickstart pointed. They should see the value of the CLI through how easy the quickstart is, not by how much detail we include in the docs.

Reviewer: Agreed on having the crux of that info in `Overview` instead of here

> ## Step 1: Install the Astro CLI

Reviewer: if we DO keep these instructions, check out my comments in Configure CLI and let's bring those changes here

> ## Step 1: Install the Astro CLI

Author: There's more minimal information here about the install, for example I excluded info about installing a specific version. For a quickstart I think it's important to have a self-contained doc. We can then send this doc to a prospect or really anyone without them having to interact with any other docs or get in the weeds with configuration.

```sh
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Step 2: Confirm the Install

To confirm the CLI was installed properly, run the following CLI command:

```
astro version
```

If the installation was successful, you should see the following output:

<pre><code parentName="pre">{`% astro version
Astro CLI Version: ${siteVariables.cliVersion}`}</code></pre>

## Step 3: Create an Astro Project

The CLI can create an Astro project which contains all of the files you need to run Airflow locally. To create a new Astro project:

1. Create a new directory for your Astro project:

    ```sh
    mkdir <your-astro-project-name>
    ```

2. Open the directory:

    ```sh
    cd <your-astro-project-name>
    ```

3. Run the following Astro CLI command to initialize an Astro project in the directory:

    ```sh
    astro dev init
    ```

    This command generates all of the necessary files to run Airflow locally, including Docker configurations and example DAGs.

## Step 4: Run Airflow Locally

To confirm that you successfully initialized an Astro project, run the following command from your project directory:

```sh
astro dev start
```

> This command builds your project and spins up 3 Docker containers on your machine, each for a different Airflow component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command builds your project and spins up 4 Docker containers on your machine, each for a different Airflow component:
```

- **Postgres:** Airflow's metadata database
- **Webserver:** The Airflow component responsible for rendering the Airflow UI
- **Scheduler:** The Airflow component responsible for monitoring and triggering tasks
- **Triggerer:** The Airflow component responsible for running Triggers and signaling tasks to resume when their conditions have been met. The Triggerer is used exclusively for tasks that are run with [deferrable operators](deferrable-operators.md)

## Step 5: Access the Airflow UI

Once your project builds successfully, you can access the Airflow UI by going to `http://localhost:8080/` and logging in with `admin` for both your username and password.

After logging in, you should see the DAGs from your `dags` directory in the Airflow UI.

<div class="text--center">
<img src="/img/docs/sample-dag.png" alt="Example DAG in the Airflow UI" />
</div>

That's all it takes to run Airflow locally using Astro! From here, you can manage your entire local Airflow environment directly for your Astro project.

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer: Let's also link out to "Test and Troubleshoot Locally" doc

Once you install the CLI, there are a few different paths you can take:

- To learn more about the available commands in the CLI, see the [CLI Command Reference] or run `astro help`.
- To develop your Astro project and configure your local Airflow environment, see [Develop Project](develop-project.md).

> - If you're ready to deploy your project to a production environment on Astro, see [Deploy Code](deploy-code.md).

Reviewer: This is great @jwitz. I think we can actually make this a _little_ more comprehensive by:

- Reworking Step 5 to be "Access the Airflow UI" to get the first "aha" moment, but no DAGs there yet...
- Adding Step 6: Push DAGs Locally (astro dev start, talk about the example DAGs that we ship with)
- Adding Step 7: See DAGs in Airflow UI (see your DAGs! you can see logs, modify task state, do whatever you want)

Author: The DAGs will be there be default though, right? We can give guidance on how to see those DAGs in Step 5 and what they do, but I don't think this step process is equivalent to what a user will experience.

Reviewer: Yes I think this is fine - for some reason I actually had missed the `astro dev start` step and thought that we had skipped over it. Once a user runs that command, they should see example DAGs yes so I think let's keep it there for now

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

## Overview

The Astro CLI is an open source command line for modern data orchestration. It is the easiest way to run Apache Airflow on your machine. By the end of this quickstart, you'll have an Airflow environment running locally with just a few commands. From there, you can start building your project with your own DAGs, dependencies, and tests.

## Step 1: Install the Astro CLI

<Tabs
    defaultValue="mac"
    values={[
        {label: 'Mac', value: 'mac'},
        {label: 'Windows', value: 'windows'},
        {label: 'Linux', value: 'linux'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="mac">

#### Prerequisites

To use the Astro CLI on Mac, you must have:

- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) (v18.09 or higher).

#### Installation

To install the latest version of the Astro CLI, run the following command:

```sh
brew install astronomer/tap/astro
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="windows">

#### Prerequisites

To use the Astro CLI on Windows, you must have:

- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/) for Windows.

> - [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) (v0.13.1 or higher).

Author: ```suggestion
- [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) (v0.18.9 or higher).
```

- **Postgres:** Airflow's metadata database
- **Webserver:** The Airflow component responsible for rendering the Airflow UI
- **Scheduler:** The Airflow component responsible for monitoring and triggering tasks
- **Triggerer:** The Airflow component responsible for running Triggers and signaling tasks to resume when their conditions have been met. The Triggerer is used exclusively for tasks that are run with [deferrable operators](deferrable-operators.md)

## Step 5: Access the Airflow UI

Once your project builds successfully, you can access the Airflow UI by going to `http://localhost:8080/` and logging in with `admin` for both your username and password.

After logging in, you should see Astronomer's example DAGs from your `dags` directory in the Airflow UI.

<div class="text--center">
<img src="/img/docs/sample-dag.png" alt="Example DAG in the Airflow UI" />
</div>

That's all it takes to run Airflow locally using Astro! From here, you can run Astronomer's example DAGs and manage your entire local Airflow environment directly for your Astro project.

## Next Steps

> Once you install the CLI, there are a few different paths you can take:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you install the CLI and have an Astro project running locally, you can:
```

> - To learn more about the available commands in the CLI, see the [CLI Command Reference](cli/reference.md) or run `astro help`.
> - To create new DAGs, develop your Astro project, and configure your local Airflow environment, see [Develop Project](develop-project.md).
> - To tourbleshoot your local Airflow environment, see [Test and Troubleshoot Locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md).
> - If you're ready to deploy your project to a production environment on Astro, see [Deploy Code](deploy-code.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To write and test your own DAGs locally and configure your local Airflow environment, see [Develop Project](develop-project.md).
- To view logs, set up unit tests for your DAGs, or troubleshoot your local Airflow environment, see [Test and Troubleshoot Locally](test-and-troubleshoot-locally.md).
- To deploy DAGs to an environment managed by Astronomer, see [Deploy Code](deploy-code.md). If you're not a customer but might be interested in Astro, [reach out to us](https://www.astronomer.io/get-started).
- To learn more about the available commands in the CLI, see the [CLI Command Reference](cli/reference.md) or run `astro help`.
```

Reviewer: Rephrase/re-ordered some of these but I think LGTM

    ```sh
    astro dev init
    ```

    This command generates all of the necessary files to run Airflow locally, including Docker configurations and example DAGs.

## Step 4: Run Airflow Locally

To confirm that you successfully initialized an Astro project, run the following command from your project directory:

```sh
astro dev start
```

This command builds your project and spins up 3 Docker containers on your machine, each for a different Airflow component:

- **Postgres:** Airflow's metadata database
- **Webserver:** The Airflow component responsible for rendering the Airflow UI
- **Scheduler:** The Airflow component responsible for monitoring and triggering tasks
- **Triggerer:** The Airflow component responsible for running Triggers and signaling tasks to resume when their conditions have been met. The Triggerer is used exclusively for tasks that are run with [deferrable operators](deferrable-operators.md)

## Step 5: Access the Airflow UI

Once your project builds successfully, you can access the Airflow UI by going to `http://localhost:8080/` and logging in with `admin` for both your username and password.

:::info

> It might take a few minutes for the Airflow UI to be available. As you wait for the Webserver container to start up, you might need to refresh your browser.

Reviewer 2: The user will be notified by CLI out put once their webserver is available
